# Generic_Exposure_Assessment_EoL_AdditiveManufacturing
This repository contains the data supporting the generic exposure assessment associated with the management of end-of-life (EoL) materials following additive manufacturing.

Associated Manuscript Title: Generic Exposure Assessment of End-of-Life Material Management in Additive Manufacturing pending submission to the Environmental Science and Technology Journal. 

Summary of the Project: Additive manufacturing (AM) offers a variety of material manufacturing techniques for a wide range of applications across many industries. Most efforts at process optimization and exposure assessment for AM are centered around the manufacturing process. However, identifying the material allocation and potentially harmful exposures in end-of-life (EoL) management is equally crucial to mitigating environmental releases and occupational health impacts within the AM supply chain. This research tracks the allocation and potential releases of AM EoL materials within the US through a material flow analysis. Over 58% of the generated AM EoL materials are incinerated, 33% landfilled, and 9% recycled. The generated dataset was then used to examine the theoretical occupational hazards during AM EoL material management practices through generic exposure scenario assessment, highlighting the importance of ventilation and personal protective equipment at all stages of AM material management. This research identifies pollution sources, offering policymakers and stakeholders insights to shape pollution prevention and worker safety strategies within the US AM EoL supply chain.

This repository contains an Excel spreadsheet used to calculate material flow of materials exiting additive manufacturing. Parameters and assumptions are listed in the “EoL Material Flow Analysis” Tab. All references leading to the necessary parameters and assumptions are listed in the “Reference ID” tab. The identity of EoL materials is available as Table S1 in the word information document titled “Chea et al - MFA_and_OccupationalExposure_in_AM_EoL_Management_SupplementaryInfo”.
